daxt function all
DAX
1. Text Functions
Function			Description
BLANK			Returns a blank.
CODE			Returns a numeric code for the first character in a text string.
CONCATENATE		Joins two text strings into one text string.
CONCATENATEX		Concatenates the result of an expression evaluated for each row in a table.
CONTAINSSTRING		Returns TRUE or FALSE indicating whether one string contains another string.
CONTAINSSTRINGEXACT	Returns TRUE or FALSE indicating whether one string contains another string.
EXACT			Compares two text strings and returns TRUE if they are exactly the same, FALSE otherwise.
FIND			Returns the starting position of one text string within another text string.
			FIND(<find_text>, <within_text>[, [<start_num>][, <NotFoundValue>]])
FIXED			Rounds a number to the specified number of decimals and returns the result as text.
FORMAT			Converts a value to text according to the specified format.
LEFT			Returns the specified number of characters from the start of a text string.
LEN			Returns the number of characters in a text string.
LOWER			Converts all letters in a text string to lowercase.
MID			Returns a string of characters from the middle of a text string, given a starting position and length.
			MID(<text>, <start_num>, <num_chars>) 
REPLACE		REPLACE replaces part of a text string, based on the number of characters you specify, with a different text string.
REPT			Repeats text a given number of times.
RIGHT			RIGHT returns the last character or characters in a text string, based on the number of characters you specify.
			RIGHT(<text>, <num_chars>)  
SEARCH			Returns the number of the character at which a specific character or text string is first found, reading left to right.
SUBSTITUTE		Replaces existing text with new text in a text string. SUBSTITUTE(<text>, <old_text>, <new_text>, <instance_num>)  
TRIM			Removes all spaces from text except for single spaces between words.
UNICHAR			Returns the Unicode character referenced by the numeric value.
UNICODE		Returns the numeric code corresponding to the first character of the text string.
UPPER			Converts a text string to all uppercase letters.
VALUE			Converts a text string that represents a number to a number. VALUE(<text>) 

2. Time-intelligence functions
Function	Description
CLOSINGBALANCEMONTH		Evaluates the expression at the last date of the month in the current context.
CLOSINGBALANCEQUARTER	Evaluates the expression at the last date of the quarter in the current context.
CLOSINGBALANCEYEAR		Evaluates the expression at the last date of the year in the current context.
DATEADD			Returns a table that contains a column of dates, shifted either forward or backward in time by the specified number of 					intervals from the dates in the current context. DATEADD(<dates>,<number_of_intervals>,<interval>)
DATESBETWEEN			Returns a table that contains a column of dates that begins with the start_date and continues until the end_date.
DATESINPERIOD			Returns a table that contains a column of dates that begins with the start_date and continues for the specified 						number_of_intervals. DATESINPERIOD(<dates>,<start_date>,<number_of_intervals>,<interval>)
DATESMTD			Returns a table that contains a column of the dates for the month to date, in the current context.
DATESQTD			Returns a table that contains a column of the dates for the quarter to date, in the current context.
DATESYTD			Returns a table that contains a column of the dates for the year to date, in the current context.DATESYTD(<dates> 				[,<year_end_date>])  
ENDOFMONTH			Returns the last date of the month in the current context for the specified column of dates.
ENDOFQUARTER			Returns the last date of the quarter in the current context for the specified column of dates.
ENDOFYEAR			Returns the last date of the year in the current context for the specified column of dates.
FIRSTDATE			Returns the first date in the current context for the specified column of dates.
FIRSTNONBLANK			Returns the first value in the column, column, filtered by the current context, where the expression is not blank
LASTDATE			Returns the last date in the current context for the specified column of dates.
LASTNONBLANK			Returns the last value in the column, column, filtered by the current context, where the expression is not blank.
				LASTNONBLANK(<column>,<expression>) 
NEXTDAY			Returns a table that contains a column of all dates from the next day, based on the first date specified in the dates 						column in the current context.
NEXTMONTH			Returns a table that contains a column of all dates from the next month, based on the first date in the dates column in 					the current context.
NEXTQUARTER			Returns a table that contains a column of all dates in the next quarter, based on the first date specified in the dates 						column, in the current context.
NEXTYEAR			Returns a table that contains a column of all dates in the next year, based on the first date in the dates column, in the 					current context.
OPENINGBALANCEMONTH		Evaluates the expression at the first date of the month in the current context.
OPENINGBALANCEQUARTER	Evaluates the expression at the first date of the quarter, in the current context.
OPENINGBALANCEYEAR		Evaluates the expression at the first date of the year in the current context.
PARALLELPERIOD			Returns a table that contains a column of dates that represents a period parallel to the dates in the specified dates 						column, in the current context, with the dates shifted a number of intervals either forward in time or back in time.
PREVIOUSDAY			Returns a table that contains a column of all dates representing the day that is previous to the first date in the dates 						column, in the current context.
PREVIOUSMONTH			Returns a table that contains a column of all dates from the previous month, based on the first date in the dates 						column, in the current context.
PREVIOUSQUARTER		Returns a table that contains a column of all dates from the previous quarter, based on the first date in the dates 						column, in the current context.
PREVIOUSYEAR			Returns a table that contains a column of all dates from the previous year, given the last date in the dates column, in 						the current context.
SAMEPERIODLASTYEAR		Returns a table that contains a column of dates shifted one year back in time from the dates in the specified dates 						column, in the current context.
STARTOFMONTH			Returns the first date of the month in the current context for the specified column of dates.
STARTOFQUARTER		Returns the first date of the quarter in the current context for the specified column of dates.
STARTOFYEAR			Returns the first date of the year in the current context for the specified column of dates.
TOTALMTD			Evaluates the value of the expression for the month to date, in the current context.
TOTALQTD			Evaluates the value of the expression for the dates in the quarter to date, in the current context.
TOTALYTD			Evaluates the year-to-date value of the expression in the current context.

3. Filter functions
ADDMISSINGITEMS	Adds combinations of items from multiple columns to a table if they do not already exist.
ALL			Returns all the rows in a table, or all the values in a column, ignoring any filters that might have been applied.`
			=SUMX(ResellerSales_USD, ResellerSales_USD[SalesAmount_USD])/CALCULATE( SUM( ResellerSales_USD			[SalesAmount_USD]), ALL(ProductCategory[ProductCategoryName]))	
ALLCROSSFILTERED	Clear all filters which are applied to a table.
ALLEXCEPT		Removes all context filters in the table except filters that have been applied to the specified columns.
ALLNOBLANKROW		From the parent table of a relationship, returns all rows but the blank row, or all distinct values of a column but the blank row, and 			disregards any context filters that might exist.
ALLSELECTED		Removes context filters from columns and rows in the current query, while retaining all other context filters or explicit filters.
CALCULATE		Evaluates an expression in a context that is modified by the specified filters.CALCULATE(<expression>,<filter1>,<filter2>…) 
CALCULATETABLE		Evaluates a table expression in a context modified by the given filters.
CROSSFILTER		Specifies the cross-filtering direction to be used in a calculation for a relationship that exists between two columns.
DISTINCT		Returns a one-column table that contains the distinct values from the specified column.
EARLIER			Returns the current value of the specified column in an outer evaluation pass of the mentioned column.
EARLIEST		Returns the current value of the specified column in an outer evaluation pass of the specified column.
FILTER			Returns a table that represents a subset of another table or expression. FILTER(<table>,<filter>) 
FILTERS			Returns the values that are directly applied as filters to columnName. FILTERS(<columnName>)  
HASONEFILTER		Returns TRUE when the number of directly filtered values on columnName is one; otherwise returns FALSE.
HASONEVALUE		Returns TRUE when the context for columnName has been filtered down to one distinct value only. Otherwise is FALSE.
ISCROSSFILTERED	Returns TRUE when columnName or another column in the same or related table is being filtered.
ISFILTERED		Returns TRUE when columnName is being filtered directly.
KEEPFILTERS		Modifies how filters are applied while evaluating a CALCULATE or CALCULATETABLE function.
RELATED		Returns a related value from another table.
RELATEDTABLE		Evaluates a table expression in a context modified by the given filters.
REMOVEFILTERS		Clears filters from the specified tables or columns.
SELECTEDVALUE		Returns the value when the context for columnName has been filtered down to one distinct value only. Otherwise returns 					xalternateResult.
SUBSTITUTEWITHINDEX	Returns a table which represents a left semijoin of the two tables supplied as arguments.
USERELATIONSHIP	Specifies the relationship to be used in a specific calculation as the one that exists between columnName1 and columnName2.
VALUES	Returns a one-column table that contains the distinct values from the specified table or column.

4. Date and time functions
Function			Description
CALENDAR		Returns a table with a single column named “Date” that contains a contiguous set of dates.
CALENDARAUTO		Returns a table with a single column named “Date” that contains a contiguous set of dates.
DATE			Returns the specified date in datetime format.
DATEDIFF		Returns the count of interval boundaries crossed between two dates.DATEDIFF(<start_date>, <end_date>, <interval>)
			DATEDIFF(MIN( Calendar[Date] ), MAX( Calendar[Date]), MONTH )   
DATEVALUE		Converts a date in the form of text to a date in datetime format.
DAY			Returns the day of the month, a number from 1 to 31.
EDATE			Returns the date that is the indicated number of months before or after the start date.
EOMONTH		Returns the date in datetime format of the last day of the month, before or after a specified number of months.
HOUR			Returns the hour as a number from 0 (12:00 A.M.) to 23 (11:00 P.M.).
MINUTE			Returns the minute as a number from 0 to 59, given a date and time value.
MONTH			Returns the month as a number from 1 (January) to 12 (December).
NOW			Returns the current date and time in datetime format.
QUARTER		Returns the quarter as a number from 1 to 4.
SECOND			Returns the seconds of a time value, as a number from 0 to 59.
TIME			Converts hours, minutes, and seconds given as numbers to a time in datetime format.
TIMEVALUE		Converts a time in text format to a time in datetime format.
TODAY			Returns the current date.
WEEKDAY		Returns a number from 1 to 7 identifying the day of the week of a date.
WEEKNUM		Returns the week number for the given date and year according to the return_type value.
YEAR			Returns the year of a date as a four digit integer in the range 1900-9999.
YEARFRAC		Calculates the fraction of the year represented by the number of whole days between two dates.

5. Statistical functions
Function				Description
ADDCOLUMNS			Adds calculated columns to the given table or table expression.
APPROXIMATEDISTINCTCOUNT	Returns the approximate number of rows that contain distinct values in a column.
AVERAGE			Returns the average (arithmetic mean) of all the numbers in a column.
AVERAGEA			Returns the average (arithmetic mean) of the values in a column. Handles text and non-numeric values.
AVERAGEX			Calculates the average (arithmetic mean) of a set of expressions evaluated over a table.
				AVERAGEX(<table>,<expression>)  =AVERAGEX(InternetSales, InternetSales[Freight]+ InternetSales[TaxAmt])  
BETA.DIST			Returns the beta distribution.
BETA.INV				Returns the inverse of the beta cumulative probability density function (BETA.DIST).
CHISQ.DIST			Returns the chi-squared distribution.
CHISQ.DIST.RT			Returns the right-tailed probability of the chi-squared distribution.
CHISQ.INV			Returns the inverse of the left-tailed probability of the chi-squared distribution.
CHISQ.INV.RT			Returns the inverse of the right-tailed probability of the chi-squared distribution.
CONFIDENCE.NORM		The confidence interval is a range of values.
CONFIDENCE.T			Returns the confidence interval for a population mean, using a Student's t distribution.
COT				Returns the cotangent of an angle specified in radians.
COTH				Returns the hyperbolic cotangent of a hyperbolic angle.
COUNT				Counts the number of cells in a column that contain numbers.
COUNTA				Counts the number of cells in a column that are not empty.
COUNTAX			Counts nonblank results when evaluating the result of an expression over a table.
				=COUNTAX(FILTER('Reseller',[Status]="Active"),[Phone])
COUNTBLANK			Counts the number of blank cells in a column.
COUNTROWS			Counts the number of rows in the specified table, or in a table defined by an expression.
COUNTX				Counts the number of rows that contain a number or an expression that evaluates to a number, when evaluating an 				expression over a table.
CROSSJOIN			Returns a table that contains the Cartesian product of all rows from all tables in the arguments.
DATATABLE			Provides a mechanism for declaring an inline set of data values.
DISTINCTCOUNT			Counts the number of distinct values in a column.
DISTINCTCOUNTNOBLANK		Counts the number of distinct values in a column.
EXPON.DIST			Returns the exponential distribution.
GENERATE			Returns a table with the Cartesian product between each row in table1 and the table that results from evaluating 				table2 in the context of the current row from table1.
GENERATEALL			Returns a table with the Cartesian product between each row in table1 and the table that results from evaluating 				table2 in the context of the current row from table1.
GEOMEAN			Returns the geometric mean of the numbers in a column.
GEOMEANX			Returns the geometric mean of an expression evaluated for each row in a table.
MAX				Returns the largest numeric value in a column, or between two scalar expressions.
MAXA				Returns the largest value in a column.
MAXX				Evaluates an expression for each row of a table and returns the largest numeric value.
MEDIAN				Returns the median of numbers in a column.
MEDIANX				Returns the median number of an expression evaluated for each row in a table.
MIN				Returns the smallest numeric value in a column, or between two scalar expressions.
MINA				Returns the smallest value in a column, including any logical values and numbers represented as text.
MINX				Returns the smallest numeric value that results from evaluating an expression for each row of a table.
NORM.DIST			Returns the normal distribution for the specified mean and standard deviation.
NORM.INV			The inverse of the normal cumulative distribution for the specified mean and standard deviation.
NORM.S.DIST			Returns the standard normal distribution (has a mean of zero and a standard deviation of one).
NORM.S.INV			Returns the inverse of the standard normal cumulative distribution.
PERCENTILE.EXC			Returns the k-th percentile of values in a range, where k is in the range 0..1, exclusive.
PERCENTILE.INC			Returns the k-th percentile of values in a range, where k is in the range 0..1, inclusive.
PERCENTILEX.EXC		Returns the percentile number of an expression evaluated for each row in a table.
PERCENTILEX.INC			Returns the percentile number of an expression evaluated for each row in a table.
POISSON.DIST			Returns the Poisson distribution.
RANK.EQ				Returns the ranking of a number in a list of numbers.
RANKX				Returns the ranking of a number in a list of numbers for each row in the table argument.
ROW				Returns a table with a single row containing values that result from the expressions given to each column.
SAMPLE				Returns a sample of N rows from the specified table.
SELECTCOLUMNS			Adds calculated columns to the given table or table expression.
SIN				Returns the sine of the given angle.
SINH				Returns the hyperbolic sine of a number.
STDEV.P				Returns the standard deviation of the entire population.
STDEV.S				Returns the standard deviation of a sample population.
STDEVX.P			Returns the standard deviation of the entire population.
STDEVX.S			Returns the standard deviation of a sample population.
SQRTPI				Returns the square root of (number * pi).
SUMMARIZE			Returns a summary table for the requested totals over a set of groups.
T.DIST				Returns the Student's left-tailed t-distribution.
T.DIST.2T				Returns the two-tailed Student's t-distribution.
T.DIST.RT			Returns the right-tailed Student's t-distribution.
T.INV				Returns the left-tailed inverse of the Student's t-distribution.
T.INV.2t				Returns the two-tailed inverse of the Student's t-distribution.
TAN				Returns the tangent of the given angle.
TANH				Returns the hyperbolic tangent of a number.
TOPN				Returns the top N rows of the specified table.
VAR.P				Returns the variance of the entire population.
VAR.S				Returns the variance of a sample population.
VARX.P				Returns the variance of the entire population.
VARX.S				Returns the variance of a sample population.

Logical functions
Function			Description
AND			Checks whether both arguments are TRUE, and returns TRUE if both arguments are TRUE.
COALESCE		Returns the first expression that does not evaluate to BLANK.= COALESCE(SUM(FactInternetSales[SalesAmount]), 0)
FALSE			Returns the logical value FALSE.
IF			Checks if a condition provided as the first argument is met.
IF.EAGER		Uses eager execution to check if a condition provided as the first argument is met.
IFERROR		Evaluates an expression and returns a specified value if the expression returns an error
NOT			Changes FALSE to TRUE, or TRUE to FALSE.
OR			Checks whether one of the arguments is TRUE to return TRUE.
SWITCH			Evaluates an expression against a list of values and returns one of multiple possible result expressions.
TRUE			Returns the logical value TRUE.
Dax Functions
